Review 2211.36 migration docs (#1573)
SAP/spartacus-docs: _pages/home/updating-to-version-2211.35/modernize-apps-migrated-from-6.8-to-2211.19.md

Reviewer: Hi Matt,
Apologies! Thanks to Kris, only now I realised that these steps affects also how the app with SSR is deployed on the CCv2 due to what output new `application` builder generates and due to adjustments in the `server.ts` file.

- The first thing is to adjust `manifest.json`, the part of the CCv2 configuration, to indicate the proper entry file. See the following example:
```diff
{
      "name": "spartacusstore",
      "path": "<YOUR-APP-NAME>",
      "ssr": {
         "enabled": true,
-       "path": "dist/<YOUR-APP-NAME>/server/main.js"
+       "path": "dist/<YOUR-APP-NAME>/server/server.mjs"
      }
      ...
 }
```

- Second is to ensure, that the CCv2 environment where customer's application is deployed, requires Application Definition in version at least 2501-20, which contain necessary improvements to deploy modernised Spartacus app.

I believe we should inform customers about the required change, but I'm not sure where to put such an information.

Reviewer 2: Good point! It's not in scope of our automated schematics in Spartacus to update anything related to CCV2 config.
So it's for sure a manual step the customers MUST do after the Spartacus migration. So we should make it visible in our modernization docs.

**Note:** You should follow the migration guide here **only if your storefront app was originally created using Spartacus 6.x libraries or older**, and was then updated to 2211.19. If your Spartacus app was originally built with 2211.19 libraries or newer, skip the steps here and go straight to [Update Release 2211.36](./migration.md).

## Automatic Migration

Spartacus includes specially-prepared schematics to automatically modernize your app to be as similar as possible to a newly created Angular 17 app.

**Note:** These schematics were only released in `@spartacus/schematics2211.36.0`, but you need to run them before fully upgrading your app to 2211.36. As a result, you need to install `@spartacus/schematics@2211.36.0` in a temporary directory and run the migration schematics from there.

1. Create a temporary sibling directory for the isolated 2211.36 installation schematics by running the following command from the root directory of your project:

   ```bash
   node -e "require('fs').mkdirSync('../temp-schematics-36')"
   ```

> 2. Install the schematics in the temporary directory by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install the schematics in the temporary directory by running the following command from the root directory of your project:
```

   ```bash
   npm install @spartacus/schematics@2211.36.0 --prefix ../temp-schematics-36
   ```

> 3. From the temporary directory, run the schematics on your project by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry I wasn't clear initially.
It's crucial to run _all those commands_ from the root directory of the project! (i.e. never change the active directory to the temporary guy)
```suggestion
3. Execute the schematics by running the following command from the root directory of your project:
```

Author: @Platonn Thank you for clarifying this!
I'll just point out, in the end I decided to add a note at the beginning of the procedure to say that all of the commands should be run from the root directory of your project, rather than including it at the end of every step.

   ```bash
   ng g ../temp-schematics-36/node_modules/@spartacus/schematics:modernize-app-migrated-from-6_8-to-2211_19
   ```

> 4. Clean up the temporary directory by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Clean up the temporary directory by running the following command from the root directory of your project:
```

   ```bash
   node -e "require('fs').rmSync('../temp-schematics-36', { recursive: true, force: true })"
   ```

> **Note:** For apps that use server-side rendering (SSR), now that you have completed this migration, you will need to run SSR and prerendering scripts in a different way. This is explained in detail in the section [New Commands for SSR Projects](#new-commands-for-ssr-projects), below.

Reviewer 2: This is a significant change. And I'm afraid putting it in a separate section (that one can achieve only by jumping via a link) can lead to a high rate of customers skipping this important steps included there, therefore increasing unintentionally their friction on debugging the problem later.

Only wow I realised I'm in favor of **moving here directly** the contents of the section `New Commands for SSR Projects`, before we finally say "Congratulations!...". Would it work for you, Matt?

Author: Excellent point! I have moved the section up and made the necessary adjustments. Thank you!

   to `"builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application",`.

   The updated section should appear as follows:

```json
        "architect": {
          "build": {
            "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application",
```

   This step configures the new `application` builder for Angular 17 and newer. This is the recommended, faster, and "future proof" builder for Angular version 17 and newer.

1. In the `architect > build > options` section of `angular.json`, apply all of the following modifications, to adapt to the new configuration format for the new builder:

   1. Rename `"main": "src/main.ts"` to `"browser": "src/main.ts"`.

      The updated section should appear as follows:

      ```json
      "architect": {
        "build": {
         "options": {
            "browser": "src/main.ts",
      ```

   1. In the `architect > build > configurations > development` section, remove the following three properties: `"buildOptimizer"`, `"vendorChunk"`, and `"namedChunks"`

1. In the `"compilerOptions"` section of `tsconfig.json`, remove the following properties: `"baseUrl"`, `"forceConsistentCasingInFileNames"`, and `"downlevelIteration"`.

> 1. In the same section, add the following properties: `"skipLibCheck": true` and `"esModuleInterop": true`.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: In each step we mention which _file_ it is related to, so let's mention it here too:
```suggestion
1. In the same section `"compilerOptions"` of `tsconfig.json`, add the following properties: `"skipLibCheck": true` and `"esModuleInterop": true`.
```

   The updated section should appear as follows:

   ```json
      "compilerOptions": {
        "skipLibCheck": true,
        "esModuleInterop": true,

>    },

Reviewer 2: To avoid confusion, let's remove the closing bracket or add `/*...*/` - because those options are not meant to be alone there. There are plenty of other unchanged options that should remain there
```suggestion
```

Author: I went with adding `/*...*/` 🙂

   import * as express from 'express';
   import { join } from 'path';
   
   import { AppServerModule } from './src/main.- server';
   import { APP_BASE_HREF } from '@angular/common';
   import { existsSync } from 'fs';
   ```

1. In `server.ts`, add the following imports to the top of the file:

   ```ts
   import { APP_BASE_HREF } from '@angular/common';
   import {
     NgExpressEngineDecorator,
     ngExpressEngine as engine,
   } from '@spartacus/setup/ssr';
   import express from 'express';
   import { dirname, join, resolve } from 'node:path';
   import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url';
   import AppServerModule from './src/main.server';
   ```

1. In `server.ts`, remove the following constants:

   ```ts
   const distFolder = join(process.cwd(), 'dist/YOUR-APP-NAME/browser');
   const indexHtml = existsSync(join(distFolder, 'index.original.html'))
     ? 'index.original.html'
     : 'index';
   ```

1. In `server.ts`, add the following constants:

   ```ts
   const serverDistFolder = dirname(fileURLToPath(import.meta.url));
   const browserDistFolder = resolve(serverDistFolder, '../browser');
   const indexHtml = join(browserDistFolder, 'index.html');

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Instead of "remove A" and "add B", I'd like to emphasise that we should "_replace_ A with B". 
In other words, it is important _where_ we add B -> in the exact place where A was.

Author: Makes sense! The steps have been adjusted accordingly 🙂 👍

1. In the `server.set('views'` call of `server.ts`, use the `browserDistFolder` constant as a second argument, instead of `distFolder`.

   The updated call should appear as follows:

   ```ts
   server.set('views', browserDistFolder);
   ```

> 1. In the `express.static(` call of `server.ts`, please use the `browserDistFolder` constant as an argument, instead of `distFolder`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the `express.static(` call of `server.ts`, please use the `browserDistFolder` constant as a first argument, instead of `distFolder`.
```

   declare const __non_webpack_require__: NodeRequire;
   const mainModule = __non_webpack_require__.main;
   const moduleFilename = (mainModule && mainModule.- filename) || '';
   if (moduleFilename === __filename || moduleFilename.- includes('iisnode')) {
     run();
   }
   ```

1. In place of the block of code that was removed in the previous step, add the following line:

   ```ts
   run();
   ```

1. At the very end of `server.ts`, remove the following line:

   ```ts
   export * from './src/main.server';
   ```

   You have now completed the migration of your app to use the Angular `application` builder. You can now continue with the following procedure.

## Using Non-Deprecated Angular APIs

After completing the migration of your app to use the new Angular `application` builder, it is also necessary to update the `app.module.ts` file to use new, non-deprecated Angular APIs.

1. In `src/app/app.module.ts`, remove `HttpClientModule` from the `imports` array.

1. Add `provideHttpClient(withFetch(), withInterceptorsFromDi()),` to the `providers` array.

   The following is an example:

   ```ts
     providers: [
       provideHttpClient(withFetch(), withInterceptorsFromDi()),

>      ],

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry, it's a flaw in my doc input:
It's not the only providers there. So let's remove `]` or add `/*...*/` to not suggest that customers should remove all other items from array
```suggestion
```

Author: I added `/*...*/` 🙂

   ```

1. If your storefront app uses SSR, you must also replace `BrowserModule.withServerTransition({ appId: 'serverApp' }),` with `BrowserModule` in the `imports` array.

   The update `imports` array should appear as follows:

   ```ts
     imports: [
        BrowserModule,

>      ],

Reviewer 2: Again, I'm sorry, it's a flaw in my doc input:
It's not the only imports there. So let's remove `]` or add `/*...*/` to not suggest that customers should remove all other items from array
```suggestion
```

Author: @Platonn I updated it as follows:

```ts
     imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        /*...*/
     ],
   ```
